---
layout: post
title:  "Week 12 - Data"
date:   2022-04-06 17:54:21 -0500
categories: work
tags: work
---

This week I began to use datasets and created some basic visualizations for them!

I primarily utilized [Kaggle][kaggle] for this, which has a number of open source datasets and also provides a Jupyter notebook to use.

[kaggle]: https://www.kaggle.com/

Jupyter notebook allows you to take code chunks and run them one by one so it is very helpful for this project.

In addtion, I used Pandas and MatPlotLib in Python in order to use and graph the data.

Pandas-A data analasis tool that lets you sort and change data for use in charting.
MatPlotLib-A library for charting data in various ways

<br>

I used a simple data set for this part of the project, as I wanted to get a handle on using the tools before I moved onto more complicated datasets. I utilized a TED Talk data set, which had data on all TED Talk videos including the speaker, view count and like count. After a bit of issues with getting set up, I began to take the data and morphed it in a number of ways:

1. I first Sorted the data by author name, and summing the total like and view counts.]
2. After this, I also got a count of the number of videos each speaker had.
3. Then, I combined these datasets to have a single datasets which contained the author name, their total views, total likes, and total number of videos

After collecting this data in this way, I charted it in the following ways:

1. Top 20 Ted Talk Speakers: This charted the top 20 speakers in terms of view count, and displayed them in a Bar Graph.
2. View Point Plot/Like Point Plot Vs. Video Count: This was two point plots, comparing the number of views/likes a speaker recieved, relative to the amount of videos they had posted.
3. 3D Point Plot Views Vs. Likes Vs. Videos: This put points on a 3D point plot relative to how many views, likes and number of videos a person had.

My part 1 project can be found [here][Project1]!

[Project1]: https://www.kaggle.com/code/edmarrs/ted-talk-data/settings
   
<br>
Overall, it is very interesting working on these datasets, and I look forward to using Kaggle to chart more complex datasets!


 










